# Understanding configuration files

###### This is an overview of how WeDeploy uses json files to help you to configure your project.

<!-- <article id="project-configuration"> -->

## Project file reference

The `project.json` file is a JSON file defining the project attributes. The default path for a `project.json` is `./project.json`.

WeDeploy uses this json file to reference to project in case it's already created. If the project does not exist, it creates a new project for you.

**Supported fields:**

<table class="table">
  <tr>
    <th>Field</th> <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>id</td> <td>Project uniq id.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>name</td> <td>Project name.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>homeContainer</td> <td>Service that will be receiving the requests in the base custom domain.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>customDomains</td> <td>Custom domains used instead the domain generated by wedeploy.</td>
  </tr>
</table>
<br>
**Validations:**

**id**: The id must be uniq, and you may get an error message in case someone else is already using this project id.

**customDomains**: The custom domain must be uniq, and you may get an error message in case someone else is already using this custom domain.

<br>
**Usage:**

`project.json`
```
{
  "id": "projectexample",
  "homeContainer": "ui",
  "customDomains": ["projectexample.wedeploy.com"]
}
```

<!-- </article> -->


<!-- <article id="service-configuration"> -->

## Service file reference

The `container.json` file is a JSON file defining the service attributes and configurations. The default path for a `container.json` is `./<service_folder>/container.json`.

WeDeploy uses this json file to reference to service in case it's already created. If the service does not exist, it creates a new service for you.

**Supported fields:**

<table class="table">
  <tr>
    <th>Field</th> <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>id</td> <td>Service uniq id.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>type</td> <td>Service stack/image type.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>hooks</td> <td>Callbacks that should be executed in the service lifecycle. Currently allowed: `build`.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>env</td> <td>Environment variables to be exported in the service lifecycle.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>description</td> <td>Short information about the service.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

<br>
**Usage:**

`container.json`
```
{
  "id": "conqueror",
  "type": "wedeploy/java",
  "description": "WeDeploy Service Example",
  "hooks": {
    "build": "./gradlew clean build installDist -x test"
  },
  "env": {
    "WEDEPLOY_USER": "user"
  }
}
```


<!-- </article> -->

